README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">🌿 CMCS Leave Management System (LMS)</h1>

<p align="center">
  A modern and digital approach to managing college leave applications — built with <b>Next.js 15</b>, <b>MongoDB</b>, and <b>Cloudinary</b>.  
  Customized for <b>CMCS College of Nashik</b> 🎓
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-15-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=nextdotjs" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-Atlas-green?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Cloudinary-Media-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=cloudinary" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TailwindCSS-Styling-38B2AC?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwindcss" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Vercel-Deployment-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=vercel" />
</p>

---

## ✨ Overview

The **Leave Management System (LMS)** simplifies and digitizes the process of applying for and approving college leaves.  
This web app replaces manual, paper-based systems — improving **transparency, speed, and accuracy**.

🔹 Students can apply for leave online.  
🔹 Faculty and admins can review and approve requests seamlessly.  
🔹 All records are stored securely and accessible anytime.

---

## 👩‍💻 Project Team

| Name | Role | Responsibilities |
|------|------|------------------|
| **Shrutika Pawar** | **Project Lead & Deployment Lead** | Coordinated project workflow, conducted weekly status briefings, managed version control, and handled application deployment. |
| **Nutan Khandave** | **Frontend Developer & UI Designer** | Built responsive UI/UX using Next.js and Tailwind CSS, ensuring accessibility and smooth user interaction.|
| **Ketakee Patil** | **Database & Deployment** | Handled MongoDB schema design, database operations, and deployment management using Vercel. |
| **Jayshree Patil** | **Backend Developer** | Developed APIs and authentication system with Node.js, Next.js API routes, and MongoDB integration. |
| **P. D. Jadhav** | **HOD** | Provided guidance and supervision throughout the project development, ensuring alignment with academic standards. |
| **Prof. Sonali Vidhate** | **Project Coordinator (CC)** | Supported and monitored project progress, providing valuable feedback and mentoring the team. |


---

## ⚙️ Tech Stack

| Category | Technologies Used |
|-----------|-------------------|
| **Frontend** | Next.js 15, Tailwind CSS |
| **Backend** | Next.js API Routes |
| **Database** | MongoDB Atlas |
| **Media Storage** | Cloudinary |
| **Authentication** | NextAuth.js |
| **Deployment** | Vercel |

---

## 🚀 Features

✅ Role-based access — Students, Faculty, and Administrators  
✅ Leave tracking dashboard  
✅ Real-time updates and email notifications  
✅ Responsive UI with Tailwind CSS  
✅ Cloudinary for profile image uploads  
✅ Progressive Web App (PWA) support  
✅ Centralized and secure data management  

---

## 🧰 Setup Instructions

### 1️⃣ Clone this repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/CMCS-LeaveDesk.git
cd CMCS-LeaveDesk

Commit message:

Updated README file with deployment info  and live demo link

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">🌿 CMCS Leave Management System (LMS)</h1>

<p align="center">
  A modern and digital approach to managing college leave applications — built with <b>Next.js 15</b>, <b>MongoDB</b>, and <b>Cloudinary</b>.  
  Customized for <b>CMCS College of Nashik</b> 🎓
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-15-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=nextdotjs" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-Atlas-green?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Cloudinary-Media-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=cloudinary" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TailwindCSS-Styling-38B2AC?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwindcss" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Vercel-Deployment-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=vercel" />
</p>

---

## ✨ Overview

The **Leave Management System (LMS)** simplifies and digitizes the process of applying for and approving college leaves.  
This web app replaces manual, paper-based systems — improving **transparency, speed, and accuracy**.

🔹 Students can apply for leave online.  
🔹 Faculty and admins can review and approve requests seamlessly.  
🔹 All records are stored securely and accessible anytime.

---

## 👩‍💻 Project Team

| Name | Role | Responsibilities |
|------|------|------------------|
| **Shrutika Pawar** | **Project Lead & Deployment Lead** | Coordinated project workflow, conducted weekly status briefings, managed version control, and handled application deployment. |
| **Nutan Khandave** | **Frontend Developer & UI Designer** | Built responsive UI/UX using Next.js and Tailwind CSS, ensuring accessibility and smooth user interaction.|
| **Ketakee Patil** | **Database & Deployment** | Handled MongoDB schema design, database operations, and deployment management using Vercel. |
| **Jayshree Patil** | **Backend Developer** | Developed APIs and authentication system with Node.js, Next.js API routes, and MongoDB integration. |
| **P. D. Jadhav** | **HOD** | Provided guidance and supervision throughout the project development, ensuring alignment with academic standards. |
| **Prof. Sonali Vidhate** | **Project Coordinator (CC)** | Supported and monitored project progress, providing valuable feedback and mentoring the team. |


---

## ⚙️ Tech Stack

| Category | Technologies Used |
|-----------|-------------------|
| **Frontend** | Next.js 15, Tailwind CSS |
| **Backend** | Next.js API Routes |
| **Database** | MongoDB Atlas |
| **Media Storage** | Cloudinary |
| **Authentication** | NextAuth.js |
| **Deployment** | Vercel |

---

## 🚀 Features

✅ Role-based access — Students, Faculty, and Administrators  
✅ Leave tracking dashboard  
✅ Real-time updates and email notifications  
✅ Responsive UI with Tailwind CSS  
✅ Cloudinary for profile image uploads  
✅ Progressive Web App (PWA) support  
✅ Centralized and secure data management  

---

## 🚀 Deployment

The project is deployed on *Vercel* using continuous deployment from GitHub.  
Every push to the main branch automatically rebuilds and updates the live site.  

🔗 *Live URL:* [https://cmcs-leave-desk.vercel.app](https://cmcs-leave-desk.vercel.app)
